---
layout: post
title:  "WHY?"
subtitle: "Why do we do science? Why do we work improving our ability to learn and build knowledge"
date:   2022-12-31 4:30:00
categories: 100Days
---


# WHY

We want to do science, in a serious fashion, in order to engage in the larger community of *pure* science.

*Pure* science is like painting, sculpting, playing music or doing *pure* math in that it is something done PURELY for its own sake ... without any compensation, without any ego, without any bullshit about building a reputation or maintaining a professional career.  Pure science is done PURELY for the sake only of doing science.

## The WHY is about the PURITY, but it's NOT about ego.

Pure science is close, but is not exactly the Big Science world of academia, research instiutions, industry and government, which is about money, empires and careers. Being part of Big Science is a tough, demanding, stressful, very *professional* gig ... we have immense respect for *professional* scientists, but we are *purists* ... it is possible to be BOTH professional and purist -- but the focus of each group is in a very different place. Professionals HAVE TO worry about money/costs/resources/calendars/meetings, reputation and EGO. Purists purely worry about only the science.  

The why of this whole thing is doing *pure* science for its own sake ... but also in order to learn, to learn how to learn scientifically, to learn how knowledge advances, to explore impossible challenges and quandries, to dwell in those areas that we know are misundertood at some deeper level.

There's a social side to doing pure science ... we do it in order to become better at the larger internetworked community and the processes of learning at massively, embarrassingly global scale ... the culture and social aspect of shared practical appreciation of things that are faintly understood or likely misunderstood is fundamentally what *pure* science is about. 

Of course, *pure* science is perhaps different from art in that the topics we care about will ULTIMATELY be about very real, very practical things ... but doing *pure* science is a matter of understanding, following and doing the research ... participating in scientific community, not for ego or empire building or professional careerism, but ***PURELY for LEARNING. ***

Learning is based upon the scientific method or the larger super-community of pure, genuine science -- it's not about politicking or empire-building or getting grants ... it is about the JOY and LOVE of the scientific community ... about studying what others have learned, interacting with others who love discovering new things and generally leveling up everyone skills ... just as we learn best when explain what we have learned to others, we actually learn the material ourselves or we learn facets of a topic that did not originally occur to us when we use a computational approach or use machines to automate our [group] learning processes.

In addition to fully exploiting the network effects of scientific communities, niches, sub-disciplines, we also exploit computational power and uses of computational power such as deep learning or HPC simulations. Computation, AI and advances in HPC technologies are about improving our ability to deeply learn or to *misunderstand* at a deeper level ... the intention of the whole effort is to find surprises.  REAL information is about SURPRISE, not affirmation.

### Scientific Operations ...Sci Ops ... why Infrastructure-as-Code is so import

Many [especially who are heavily vested in career franchises that involve working alone, rather than collaboratively developing code and exploring data with others] do not understand, and frankly detest, the emergent dominance of things like machine images provisioned with Python libraries and Notebooks or JupyterLab servers for scientific computation ... the point of Python is not really about computation as much as it is about the network effects of virtual scientific seminars in which everyone gets to play with the data, the code and the kinds of things that audiences used to just passively listen to.

SciOps ... or provisioning [development containers](https://containers.dev) in an infrastructure-as-code fashion is fundamentally about a different kind of science, because it is about ACTIVELY ENGAGING an audience in the data, code and discussion ... ***social*** collaboration in [development containers](https://containers.dev) is like giving EVERYONE an instrument to play, rather expecting the audience to be well-behaved as they passively listen to the professional song-and-dance man up on stage.  
 
Active engagement with the audience is why we embrace the discipline of using an infrastructure-as-code philosophy ... this SciOps dev workflow is really about being able to share results and interact with a focus on the science [rather than on whether someone's getting different results because their machine is set up different] ... SciOps involves automating the effectiveness of the structure of curated, annotated, scripted, automated learning -- so we use tools like Jupyter and Python because OTHER people use these things for exploratory analysis ... SciOps is about making the community interactions mostly about the pure science, RATHER than about the set-up or installation or dependencies or debugging someone's system.

Mostly, our reason for wanting *to just get into it* is about more rapidly discovering where our misunderstandings are causing difficulties ...  we want push our knowledge until it breaks and fails ... anything that humans doing with serious or intensity is all about failing ... not being a comfortable spectator, but more rapidly being humiliated by how little we actually understand.

### You will NEVER finish this pre-requisite lesson from Day 0

The meta-lesson of this lesson is about the NECESSITY of embracing the humility of learning from other human beings.  ***Social*** collaboration in [development containers](https://containers.dev) is not just a matter of *being naked on stage* as a public speaker -- it's about letting everyone see the teleprompter and be able to actively participate and really ***see*** the weaknesses in the data or in the logic of the code or the discussion of results. 

If you really embrace the necessity of the humility of active collaboration ... it will drive EVERYTHING that you do in order to prepare to do PURE science in a radically more modern way.

***The HUMILITY of modern scientific collaboration drives our WHY*** 
